alright there's two special cases that
we need to be familiar with for a
converging device we do know what
happens when the object is at infinity
and when the object is at the focal
point so we start with when the object
is at infinity let's say they have a
converging device and the object is at
infinity I'll draw lens so we have this
converging device let's see what happens
to our minds mirror equation so we're
not going to plug in 4 0 infinity how's
this equation simplify now 1010 cry
because one over infinity is 0 good and
then how does it simplify some more
this equation has fractions it would be
simpler if it didn't have any fractions
I over have you could say that that's
right that would be valid we can
short-circuit that a little though
because remember once we only have one
fraction on each side the easiest thing
to do algebraically does take the
reciprocal of both sides once you only
have one fraction on each size the
easiest thing to take the reciprocal of
both sides what happens when you take
the reciprocal of both sides what
equation do you get here what's the
reciprocal of the left-hand side or
actually yeah now what's the reciprocal
of the right-hand side ok so I would say
this is simpler than this equation over
here so this would be a good way to
simplify that equation we should already
have done with the focal length equal
the image distance you can see from
looking at this that these have to have
the same denominator this confirms that
the focal length here I equals the image
distance by the way this is a converging
mirror so is that positive or negative
that's right we'll talk about converging
lens or mirror so if it's converging
would F be positive or negative so is I
going to be positive or negative based
on the equation how's it what does it
mean we may have a positive I means we
have
okay good now let's draw what this is
going to look like in our picture over
here when the object is at infinity the
first thing to see is that when an
object is at infinity all of the Rays
come in parallel to the axis and an
object is at infinity all the Rays come
in parallel to the axis you can see that
here here's an object is very close to
the lens and these rays are obviously
not parallel but let's say that object
is much further away well they're still
not parallel but you can see they're
more parallel than they were before well
this could really be at infinity the two
days would be perfectly parallel so this
is something else you need to know when
the object is at infinity the incoming
rays are all p rates the incoming rays
are all parallel to the axis
all the Rays will look like this all
parallel to the axis okay and where are
they going to go out from well we just
saw that they're going to go through the
focal point the image will be at the
focal point over here now this is going
to be a real image which means it's on
the same side as the outgoing light so
the image has to be over here so we need
to use this focal point so this ray will
go through the focal point this rate
we'll go to the focal point this rate
we'll go through the focal point the
Rays from underneath will come through
the focal point
the outgoing rains will all go through
the focal point okay so when the object
is going to be all the incoming rays
come in parallel to the axis and all the
outgoing braids go out into focal points
let's also figure out how big this would
be well the magnification is negative I
over Oh what am I going to plug in for I
well that's going to be the focal
distance and when we plug in 40 I'll
remember we're assuming the object was
that infinity so what would the
magnification be what does that mean it
means that the image has been shrunk to
a point it means it's been shrunk to the
point it's been shrunk as much as it
possibly could be shrunk to a point
okay you can see that from our picture
all of the rays are converging to the
same exact point it's just that whole
images is going to be this one point
over here this is kind of common sense
if the object is infinitely far away
it's going to be tiny the image is going
to be tiny absolutely far away image
objects given a tiny image over here
okay so these are things that actually
come up a lot on exams when the object
side infinity to incoming rays are
parallel to the axis so the outgoing
raised go to the focal point the image
is shrunk to a point we kind of showed
that in the lens mirror equation but
that's also good to know let's take a
look at our lens mirror chart up here
we're doing with converging device and
where are we in this chart well aren't
we way far out over here right because
we're at infinity way far out past 2f if
you look at the chart here notice that
remember magnified is in the middle and
shrunk is on the edges well something we
didn't talk about with what that means
is the further you go towards the edges
of the chart the more shrunk the image
is going to be and the further you go
towards the middle of the chart over
here the more magnified it's going to be
in fact if you're right at this point
over here the magnification would be
infinite if you are right here at the
very middle of the chart the
magnification would be infinite because
this is a very middle of the
magnification region on the other hand
if your way out here and totally far an
infinity totally in the trunk in region
the magnification would be 0 over here
so that's good to know the further we go
to the sides the smaller the image is
and the more we are in the middle more
magnified it's going to be I have that a
little bit in the hand out right at this
point if you put the object of the hope
appoint the magnification would be
infinite you guys should also added out
here when it's at infinity the
magnification is 0 I've got yourself ok
I showed this for converging lens but
have also worked for a converging mirror
all this stuff about the the Rays